CptS 223 Fall 2013  
Homework 06  
Due 12-12-2013  
Novella (100 points)  

-----

Write a program called "novella" to search and index text. Your program
should read a file specified as an argument on the command line.

>     novella myNoevel.txt

The program should allow the user to: **search** for a keyword to find whole
and partial sub-string matches within the text.

### Novel File Structure

1. The file format will be ASCII text [0-9][a-zA-Z] including punctuation.
2. Lines should be parsed by newline character \\n
3. Pages should be counted every 20 lines. i.e. every 20 lines you read, you should increment the page number. You can assume this number to be fixed.
4. Lines should be relative to page numbers. i.e. You should have Page 1, line 0, Page 2, line 0, Page N, line 0.

## Requirements

**Ignore common words** - Your program should ignore the top 100 most common
words in the English language (see the end of the assignment for list). You
may use an STL map to check each word before inserting into the Trie and
Suffix Tree.

**Non-Alphanumeric Characters** - Your program should ignore non-alphanumeric
characters such as punctuation, hyphens, etc., such as "dog's", or "top-dog".
Only [0-9][a-zA-Z] must be considered when matching.

**Case sensitivity** - Your program should ignore case sensitivity. Searching
for DoG should return DOG or dog. You may convert all text to upper or lower
case to make this assignment easier. Alternatively, no bonus points will be
given for maintaining case.


**PREFIX Search Command** - The program should have a search mode that looks
for prefixes of words. i.e. prefix dog would return the positions in the text
where dog was listed. The positions should be given by page number, line
number. You should also print the surrounding text where the keyword was found
with the ellipsis as shown below:

    prefix dog

    dog found on:

        Page 15, Line 7

            ...the big dog was here...

        Page 16, Line 8

            ...gone away. Dog's once ruled...

        Page 16, Line 9

            ...there my Dog was spotted...

You should print two words before and after the keyword. In the Above example
the keyword **dog** was found on three pages. Your program should not return
"g-dog", as it is prefixed by a **g**.

**Suffix Search Command** - The program should have a search mode that looks
for patterns in the text. This should list where in the text the pattern was
listed. The positions should be given by page number, line number. You should
also print the surrounding text where the keyword was found with the ellipsis
as shown below:

    suffix dog

    dog found on:

        Page 15, Line 7
            
            ...he was birddogged when he...

        Page 16, Line 8,

            ...gone away. Dog's once ruled...

        Page 16, Line 9
            
            ...there my Dog was spotted...

You should print two words before and after the keyword. In the Above example
the keyword dog was found on three pages. You don’t have to worry about
showing words on multiple lines.
Although the program should now show:
    
    Page 16, Line 16 & 17
        ...there my
        dog was sitting...
    
**Bonus**

5 bonus points if you print the keyword in colored text. Prefix and suffix
commands should only highlight the keyword searched (it’s ok if you include
punctuations, hyphens, etc., e.g. main-dog-s)

> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code#graphics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code#graphics)

> [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2616906/how-do-i-output-coloured-text-to-a-linux-terminalGrading](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2616906/how-do-i-output-coloured-text-to-a-linux-terminalGrading)

## Grading

**C** - (starting at 72/100)

> Prefix finds the text and prints the pages and line numbers  
> Prefix finds the text and prints the pages, line numbers, and surrounding text up to N characters  
> Prefix Finds the text and prints the pages, line numbers, and surrounding two words (left and right)  

**B** - (starting at 82/100)

> Suffix finds the pattern and prints the pages and line numbers  
> Suffix finds the pattern and prints the pages, line numbers, and surrounding text, up
to N characters

**A** - (starting at 92/100)

> Suffix finds the pattern and prints the pages, line numbers, and surrounding two words (left and right)

**Bonus + 10**

1. Compare the space requirements for a trie to that of a standard array
2. Compare the time it takes to search for a keyword pattern using the naïve approach discussed in class to using a suffix array
3. If you don’t store the entire file for printing pre- and post-words after the pattern.

**Bonus + 5**

1. Colored text as mentioned above

**Max**

Max points = 110/100
Fail
You don’t use a trie
Your code does not unzip
Your code does not compile
If you only do the prefix command, you will receive half of the points for each section.Rank

-----  -----
Rank   Word
1      the    
2      be     
3      to     
4      of     
5      and    
6      a      
7      in     
8      that   
9      have   
10     I      
11     it     
12     for    
13     not    
14     on     
15     with   
16     he     
17     as     
18     you    
19     do     
20     at     
21     this   
22     but    
23     his    
24     by     
25     from   
26     they   
27     we     
28     say    
29     her    
30     she    
31     or     
32     an     
33     will   
34     my     
35     one    
36     all    
37     would  
38     there  
39     their  
40     what   
41     so     
42     up     
43     out    
44     if     
45     about  
46     who    
47     get    
48     which  
49     go     
50     me     
51     when   
52     make   
53     can    
54     like   
55     time   
56     no     
57     just   
58     him    
59     know   
60     take   
61     people 
62     into   
63     year   
64     your   
65     good   
66     some   
67     could  
68     them   
69     see    
70     other  
71     than   
72     then   
73     now    
74     look   
75     only   
76     come   
77     its    
78     over   
79     think  
80     also   
81     back   
82     after  
83     use    
84     two    
85     how    
86     our    
87     work   
88     first  
89     well   
90     way    
91     even   
92     new    
93     want   
94     because
95     any    
96     these  
97     give   
98     day    
99     most   
100    us
-----  -----


## Guidance

This program is not as big as it may look. Consider what you have to do. Start
first with pen and paper. Build the concept first BEFORE PROGRAMMING!!!!!!! Or
you are destined to do poorly.

### Data structures

1. Trie
    a. compressed or standard trie
2. Suffix Tree
    a. This is a compressed trie
3. Pattern
4. Terminal Node
    a. Store page #
    b. Store line #
    c. You could use two more pointers to reduce space requirements for your software.
5. You could store each line
    a. Given Page ID, Line ID, return vector of words

### Building

1. Trie / Suffix Construction
    a. Word Ignorer
        i. Given a word, should it be inserted in the trie?
    b. File Reading
        i. Parsing words, split on newline, split on space,
        ii. Page / Line Identifier Algorithm
    c. Word Tracker
        i. Given a line ID, return all words
2. Algorithm
    a. Get User Input Command and Pattern
    b. Find all matches for pattern
        i. Prefix or Suffix – think about it, is there much of a difference in what they return?
    c. For each match
        i. Lookup the Line
        ii. Get the pre-words before pattern
        iii. Get the post-words after pattern
        iv. Print (pre-words, word, post-words)

### Define Your Tasks

1. Define your test cases
2. Define your objects you will build
3. Write each test and object and test each feature first.
4. Then integrate the above.


